1) Explain SDLC at a high level
Phases: Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a term which is used to explain how the software is delivered to customer.
Requirements Analysis, design, development, testing & maintenance.
2) What is waterfall and why it is still relevant
When the requirements are clear and no changes are required waterfall process models are used.
Pros:
Complete project on time and budget.
Cons:
Cannot be changed, takes a lot of time and budget.
We can reuse modules using waterfall approach.

3) Explain Agile Model with a use case and the role of SCRUM in that
The Agile SDLC model was primarily designed to help a project to adapt to change requests quickly, or when the continous changes are required 
we use agile model as it's more easy to change in every phase and cost & time effective.
Example:
Mobile Applications use agile approach as they may require frequent updates if user requirements are changed.
Scrum is a Framework of getting work done in agile approach. 
Agile can be improved using scrum methodologies as daily discussions are taken place in scrum.

4) Who is Scrum Master
Makes sure that the team members are well trained to follow Agile practices appropriately.
Also, Scrum mster coaches the teams and mentions the timeline to finish the project on the time and budget.

5) Differentiate between Product/Sprint Backlog
Product backlog is a priority list of user requirements & product owner owns the product backlog and he is the one who prioritize it based on the feedbacks or business value.
Sprint backlog is a part of the product backlog. 
Each sprint, scrumteam picks the user story from each product backlog.

6) What is Epic & Story
Epic: Customer will come and explain a big story how he wanted to improve his product.
Story: From a one particular epic you can make 100 different stories. Using stories developer can identify different requirements.
'Epic' is based on the user end product scenario.

7) What is called Velocity in SCRUM
no. of user story picked by scrum team from product backlog is based on the avg velocity of scrum team.

8) Explain the SCRUM ceremonies

Organizing the backlog: devs manage and update backlogs of the stories.
Sprint Planning: Tell devs to rate stories in this stage 'fibonacci sequence' is used. 
Sprints: Agreement or negotiations will happen in this stage. Then finalise the sprints.
Sprint execution: We execute selected sprints in this stage.
Daily scrum: daily scrum meeting are held in this stage to tackle issues and obstacles. for eg. need access to any db etc.
Sprint review: In this stage the higher member of team decide to review the obstacles e.g. giving access to db. All members contribute in reviewing.
Sprint retrospective: Scrum master does overall analysis to identify failures and obstacles to improve the performance.

9) What is grooming
Filter the backlog to ensure it has relevant items.
Assign priorities to the items present. eg fibonacci series
Discuss each item in detail, get enough clarity from test/development view.

10) How Jira board is effective in SCRUM
Jira unites teams around a single goal and promotes iterative, incremental delivery.

11) Differentiate between SCRUM & Waterfall
Waterfall: Takes extra time in reviewing as it's done at the result only.
Scrum: Saves time as reviewing is done in regular sprints in the development process.

Waterfall: work is divided in phases. Team works closely.
Scrum: Work is divided in team as an individual responsibility.

Waterfall: works well with the small project.
Scrum: works well with medium, large and complex projects

12) Explain the responsibilities of Product Owner
Create and maintain the Product Backlog
Prioritize the features in the Backlog before Sprint.
Helping the Scrum Master organize Sprint Review Meetings.
Attend Sprint Planning meetings.
